[Music]
ten psychological facts that reveal a
lot about you
okay guys a little reverb goes a long
way okay let's not overdo it over the
years scientists have uncovered many of
the human brain's mysteries and
shortcomings that were securely hidden
in our psyche today brightside invites
you on a journey inside your own head to
find out what makes your consciousness
work number one we're constantly
altering our memories we tend to see our
memories as small movies or video clips
things that lie on some shelf inside our
brain safe and unalterable but as it
turns out recollections of past events
change every time they pass before our
mind's eye their content is influenced
by memory blackouts and by events that
took place in the more recent past for
example you don't have clear
recollections of all the people who
attended a family get-together a couple
of years ago but since your aunt never
misses events of this kind your mind
eventually includes her in the memories
even if she was absent on that
particular occasion
[Music]
number two we can only have a limited
number of friends psychologists and
sociologists have come up with something
called the Dunbar's number not dumb and
Dumberer
the maximum number of people with whom a
person can maintain close ties so even
if you have thousands of friends on
Facebook you can only have meaningful
communication with 50 to 200 of them
number three we feel happier when we're
busy imagine that you're at the airport
and you need to pick up the luggage in
ten minutes
you reach the claim area and immediately
collect your suitcase and now a slightly
different situation you find a shortcut
and manage to get to the baggage
carousel in just two minutes then you
spend the remaining eight minutes
waiting for your suitcase to appear in
both cases it took you no more than 10
minutes to pick up the luggage however
in the second scenario you probably felt
more impatient and dissatisfied this is
due to the fact that our brain dislikes
being idle and prefers to stay busy
instead and for every task completed it
rewards us with dopamine the hormone of
happiness ah dopamine number 4 we can
memorise only 3 to 4 things at a time
studies show that our brain can store no
more than three to four pieces of
information at once in addition this
info can only be preserved for 20 to 30
seconds after this time we forget it
unless we keep refreshing it in our
memory over and over again for instance
let's say you're driving and talking on
the phone don't do that the person on
the other end gives you a number but you
can't write it down so you try to
memorize it instead you repeat the
number again and again so as to preserve
it in your short-term memory until you
can disconnect and write it down by the
way the fact that we find it easier to
remember three to four pieces of
information at a time explains why so
many things consist of three to four
digits or lines number five our visual
perception of things differs from their
actual appearance our brain constantly
processes information received from
sensory organs it analyzes visual images
and interprets them in a form accessible
to us for example the reason for us
being able to read a text quickly lies
in the fact that we're not actually
reading it we simply notice the first
and last letters of each word and
intuitively fill in the rest based on
our past experience as the saying goes
it doesn't matter in what order the
letters appear in a word if the first
and last letters remain in place well
that was weird
see we look at groups of jumbled letters
yet perceive them as proper words and
this doesn't just happen with texts
number six we spend 30% of our time
daydreaming imagine you're at work
studying an important document suddenly
you realize that you've just read the
same sentence three times in a row
instead of analyzing the text your mind
was wandering scientists from the
University of California say that every
day we spend 30 percent of our time
daydreaming sometimes for instance
during long trips this share increases
to as much as 70% but there's nothing
wrong with it studies show that people
who love to wander in the clouds tend to
be more creative also they're better at
solving problems and getting rid of
stress number 7 we can't ignore three
things in life food sex and danger have
you ever wondered why people always stop
to look at the aftermath of a road
accident
even though bystanders find the site
distressing they continue to gawk such
curiosity is triggered by our ancient
brain a section responsible for survival
its function is to constantly scan the
environment posing and answering three
questions can I eat that can I have sex
with that can I be killed by that
actually there's a fourth question can i
buy that at a discount food sex and
danger are still the things fundamental
to our staying alive so we can't help
but pay attention to them number eight
we need as much choice as possible as
part of a recent study scientists set up
two tables in a supermarket on the first
table they play six types of jam on the
second 24 as a result 60% of customers
stop to try the jams at Table one
however when it came to making purchases
Table two proved four times more popular
why did this happen
as we already know our brain can only
focus on three to four things at a time
therefore making final decisions is
easier when there's a limited number of
options such as six types of Jam
nevertheless we always crave variety we
love to browse through a wide range of
products that's why we're more likely to
stop by the table with 24 types of jam
although in the end we'll still go for
the same brand we've bought many times
before number 9 most of our decisions
are unconscious we'd like to believe
that all our actions are the result of
careful planning but in reality 60 to 80
percent of our everyday decisions are
made subconsciously okay that's starting
to get annoying we don't think about
doing those things we just do them every
second our brain receives millions of
units of data to prevent over exhaustion
some of the work gets relegated to the
subconscious pocketing the keys turning
off the lights
closing the front door we perform such
actions automatically without thinking
all right take your hand off the Reaver
button you got it now on the downside
this often leads to self-doubt for
instance when we arrive at the office
and suddenly begin to fret over whether
or not we've turned the iron off number
10 there's no such thing as multitasking
Millennials pay attention
studies show that we can only perform
one cognitive activity at a time try
talking and reading at once or writing a
letter while listening to an audio book
most likely nothing good will come of it
our brain just can't focus on two tests
simultaneously however there is an
exception if the second activity is
purely physical and automatic the type
of thing that we perform on a day to day
basis then it is possible to combine
both tasks for example you can talk on
the phone while walking
but even then
there's a good chance of tripping and
losing track of conversation do you
still need the reverb maybe one last
thing okey-dokey so which fact was the
most surprising for you share in the
comments don't forget to hit the like
button and click subscribe to join us on
the bright side of life nice effect